docs: add troubleshooting how-to for deployment issues (#40)
canonical/charmed-aether-sd-core: docs/how-to/troubleshoot_deployment_issues.md

```

### Recommended Actions

Validate that the Juju controller is running.

First, list the available Juju controllers:

```shell
$ juju controllers
Use --refresh option with this command to see the latest information.

Controller           Model      User   Access     Cloud/Region        Models  Nodes  HA  Version
microk8s-localhost*  private5g  admin  superuser  microk8s/localhost       9      -   -  3.4.5  
```

If your controller does not show up in the list, please follow [this guide][Bootstrap a Juju Controller] to create a Juju controller.

If the controller is listed, get your controller's `api-endpoints` address.

```shell
$ juju show-controller <your-controller-name>
microk8s-localhost:
  details:
    controller-uuid: ced7016b-3a63-4133-8988-cf33068c3cdf
    api-endpoints: ['10.152.183.251:17070']
    cloud: microk8s
    region: localhost
    agent-version: 3.4.5
```

Perform a healthcheck using your Juju controller's `api-endpoints` address which is `10.152.183.251:17070` in this guide:

```shell
$ curl -ik https://<api-endpoints>/health
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 10 Oct 2024 12:39:00 GMT
Content-Length: 8
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8

running
```

> If the healthcheck returns `running` check the firewall rules in your environment. Otherwise, access to the controller `api-server` container and check the logs:

Reviewer: If we're suggesting checking the firewall rules, should we also describe what should/should not be in those rules?

Author: Yes, we can add it.

> If the healthcheck returns `running` check the firewall rules in your environment. Otherwise, access to the controller `api-server` container and check the logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the healthcheck returns `running` check the firewall rules in your environment. Otherwise, check the controller's `api-server` container logs for any errors:
```

Author: This is removed.

│ the provider documentation.
│ Error: dial tcp 10.152.183.251:17070: i/o timeout
│   with provider["registry.terraform.io/juju/juju"],
│   on <empty> line 0:
│   (source code not available)
│ Connection error, please check the controller_addresses property set on the provider
```

### Recommended Actions

Validate that the Juju controller is running.

First, list the available Juju controllers:

```shell
$ juju controllers
Use --refresh option with this command to see the latest information.

Controller           Model      User   Access     Cloud/Region        Models  Nodes  HA  Version
microk8s-localhost*  private5g  admin  superuser  microk8s/localhost       9      -   -  3.4.5  
```

If your controller does not show up in the list, please follow [this guide][Bootstrap a Juju Controller] to create a Juju controller.

If you controller exists, get your controller's `api-endpoints` address.

```shell
$ juju show-controller <your-controller-name>
microk8s-localhost:
  details:
    controller-uuid: ced7016b-3a63-4133-8988-cf33068c3cdf
    api-endpoints: ['10.152.183.251:17070']
    cloud: microk8s
    region: localhost
    agent-version: 3.4.5
```

> Perform a healthcheck on your Juju controller using `api-endpoints` address which is `10.152.183.251:17070` in this guide:

Author: remove

> # Troubleshoot the deployment issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Troubleshoot deployment issues
```

Author: Done.

This guide provides step-by-step troubleshooting actions to remediate deployment issues. We hope you don't need this guide. If you encounter an issue and aren't able to address it via this guide, please raise an issue [here][Bug Report].

## 1. Terraform failed to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core because of configuration mismatch

### Symptoms

> Terraform may fail to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core modules. When the `terraform apply -auto-approve` command is run, the deployment fails with the wrong integration endpoints or the wrong object attributes etc. as following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `terraform apply -auto-approve` command fails with the wrong integration endpoints or the wrong object attributes:
```

Author: This case is removed as it does not provide a solution.

### Recommended Actions

If any application hangs in `Waiting`, `Error` or `Blocked` within the details that defined in the below table, please open a [bug report][Bug Report].

| Charm Status | How much time passed                             | Reason                 | Recommended Action    |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------|------------------------|-----------------------|
| Waiting      | Time is exceeded according the followed tutorial |                        | File a bug report     | 
| Error        |                                                  | Any reason             | File a bug report     |
| Blocked      |                                                  | Waiting for a relation | File a bug report     |

Get the application logs:

```shell
$ microk8s.kubectl logs -f <pod_name> -n <model_name>
```

Attach the logs to the bug report.

## 3. Terraform failed to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core because of selecting an existing Juju model

### Symptoms

> Terraform may fail to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core modules because of the provided model name already exists in the Juju controller. When the `terraform apply -auto-approve` command is run, the deployment fails with the client error which express that the Juju model could not be created as following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `terraform apply -auto-approve` command fails with a client error which express that the Juju model could not be created:
```

Author: Done.

```console
Plan: 72 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
juju_model.private5g: Creating...
│ Error: Client Error
│   with juju_model.private5g,
│   on main.tf line 1, in resource "juju_model" "private5g":
│    1: resource "juju_model" "private5g" {
│ Unable to create model, got error: failed to open kubernetes client: annotations map[controller.juju.is/id:ced7016b-3a63-4133-8988-cf33068c3cdf
│ model.juju.is/id:2abfe7ab-9e40-4e0d-8158-53450c47b2db] for namespace "private5g" not valid must include map[controller.juju.is/id:ced7016b-3a63-4133-8988-cf33068c3cdf
│ model.juju.is/id:9755936b-8084-4397-8a67-28773b361dfa] (not valid)
```

### Recommended Actions

> Check all the existing Juju models:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validate whether a Juju model already exists with the same name:
```

```shell
$ juju models
controller: microk8s-localhost

Model       Cloud/Region        Type        Status      Units  Access  Last connection
controller  microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  available   1       admin  just now
private5g*  microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  destroying  -       admin  6 minutes ago
private5g2  microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  destroying  -       admin  1 minute ago
sdcore      microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  available   19      admin  2024-10-04
```

> According to [Customize the model name using variables][Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform], provide a model name which does not exist in the Juju controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Choose a model name that does not already exist in the Juju controller. Read [this guide][Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform] for more information.
```

Author: Done.

## 4. Juju failed to deploy Charmed Aether SD-Core as Juju controller is not reachable

### Symptoms

> While Juju is performing the deployment, the Juju controller may be unavailable which fails the deployment with the error `timeout to Juju Terraform provider` as following.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `terraform apply -auto-approve` command fails with a dial tcp i/o timeout error:
```

Author: Done.

```console
$ terraform apply --auto-approve
│ Error: Invalid provider configuration
│ Provider "registry.terraform.io/juju/juju" requires explicit configuration. Add a provider block to the root module and configure the provider's required arguments as described in
│ the provider documentation.
│ Error: dial tcp 10.152.183.251:17070: i/o timeout
│   with provider["registry.terraform.io/juju/juju"],
│   on <empty> line 0:
│   (source code not available)
│ Connection error, please check the controller_addresses property set on the provider
```

### Recommended Actions

> Make sure that the Juju controller is available:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validate that the Juju controller is available:
```

Author: I do not see a big difference here, but replacing.

```shell
$ juju controllers
Use --refresh option with this command to see the latest information.

Controller           Model      User   Access     Cloud/Region        Models  Nodes  HA  Version
microk8s-localhost*  private5g  admin  superuser  microk8s/localhost       9      -   -  3.4.5  
```

If it does not output the controller details, please follow the guide [manage Juju controllers][Manage Juju Controller] to create an accessible Juju controller.

## 5. Charmed Aether SD-Core charms stuck at the Waiting/Blocked status

### Symptoms

> After deploying the Charmed Aether SD-Core, check the applications' status:
> 
> ```shell
> $ juju status
> ```
> 
> All the charms except the `grafana-agent` should be in the Active/Idle state.
> 
> If any application hangs in `Waiting` or `Blocked` status, check the table below to see the recommended actions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After deploying Charmed Aether SD-Core, charms hang in `Waiting` or `Blocked` status.
```

Author: Done.

# Troubleshoot the deployment issues

> This guide provides the steps to troubleshoot the unsuccessful Charmed Aether SD-Core deployments for different failure cases.

Author: Done

## A. Create a Bug Report

If you hit one of the following situations during the deployment, raise the issue by filling a [bug report][Bug Report].

> 

Author: Removed.

### A. 1. Terraform failed to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core because of configuration mismatch

Terraform may fail to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core modules because of wrong configuration issues. These errors are generally caused by the mistakes in module designs or oversights during version changes.
When the `terraform apply -auto-approve` command is run, deployment fails with wrong integration endpoints or wrong object attributes etc. as following:

> 

Author: Done

> 

Author: All the explanations are removed.

```console
$ terraform apply -auto-approve 
╷
│ Error: Unsupported attribute
│ 
│   on main.tf line 54, in resource "juju_integration" "cu-nms":
│   54:     endpoint = module.sdcore.fiveg_identity_endpoint
│     ├────────────────
│     │ module.sdcore is a object
│ 
│ This object does not have an attribute named "fiveg_identity_endpoint".
```

#### Recommended Actions

[Validate the Terraform modules][Validate Terraform Configuration] by running `terraform validate` to analyze the dependencies between resources in your infrastructure configuration to determine the order to perform your operations.

This command outputs the consistency result of the Terraform modules as success or error.

> Fixing the module may require advanced knowledge. If you hit a case that described above, create a [bug report][Bug Report]

Reviewer 2: This is a how-to guide, please focus on specific steps and not so much on explanations. For instance here, you could simply say:

---

Validate the Terraform modules:

```shell
terraform validate
```

The command should not fail. If it does, please open a [bug report][Bug Report].

Author: Done

# Troubleshoot the deployment issues

This guide provides step-by-step troubleshooting actions to remediate deployment issues. We hope you don't need this guide. If you encounter an issue and aren't able to address it via this guide, please raise an issue [here][Bug Report].

## 1. Terraform failed to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core because of configuration mismatch

### Symptoms

Terraform may fail to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core modules. When the `terraform apply -auto-approve` command is run, the deployment fails with the wrong integration endpoints or the wrong object attributes etc. as following:

```console
$ terraform apply -auto-approve 
╷
│ Error: Unsupported attribute
│ 
│   on main.tf line 54, in resource "juju_integration" "cu-nms":
│   54:     endpoint = module.sdcore.fiveg_identity_endpoint
│     ├────────────────
│     │ module.sdcore is a object
│ 
│ This object does not have an attribute named "fiveg_identity_endpoint".
```

### Recommended Actions

[Validate the Terraform modules][Validate Terraform Configuration]:

```shell
$ terraform validate
Success! The configuration is valid.
```

> The command should not fail. If it does, please open a [bug report][Bug Report].

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we need this whole point. If the deployment fails, the user will open a bug anyway and telling them to run `terraform validate` just to see that it fails doesn't seem to bring a lot of value.
WDYT?

Author: There can be some cases that `terraform apply -auto-approve` fails but `terraform validate` is successful. This indicates another problem. The user will create a bug in both cases but the validation step provides more insight.

Author: This case is removed.

> ## 2. Charmed Aether SD-Core charms stuck at the Waiting/Error status

Reviewer: Similar comment as above - if the recommended action is opening a bug report, should that go under `Troubleshooting`?

Author: I do not think it is a bad idea to tell users to create a bug report.  This document  picks up some cases that users may generally encounter and we recommend some actions to do. Some issues are environmental and the users may solve it by following the guidance but the others requires developer effort.

Reviewer 2: Yeah I agree with @Gmerold on this one, there is no troubleshooting action here.

This doc should contain steps of things to do for users to fix their own problems.

Author: The cases that does not provide solution is removed from the doc.

### Symptoms

After deploying the Charmed Aether SD-Core, check the applications' status:

```shell
$ juju status
```

> In the command output, all the charms except the `grana-agent` should be in the Active/Idle state. If any application's status is `Waiting` or `Error`, please apply the recommended actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the command output, all the charms except the `grafana-agent` should be in the Active/Idle state. If any application's status is `Waiting` or `Error`, please apply the recommended actions.
```

### Recommended Actions

> if any application hangs in `Waiting` or `Error` status, please open a [bug report][Bug Report].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any application hangs in `Waiting` or `Error` status, please open a [bug report][Bug Report].
```

Author: Done.

| Charm Status | How much time passed                             | Reason                | Recommended Action                                                    |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Waiting      | Time is exceeded according the followed tutorial |                       | File a bug report                                                     | 
| Error        |                                                  | Any reason            | File a bug report                                                     |

Get the application container's logs:

```shell

> $ microk8s.kubectl logs -f <pod_name> -c <container_name> -c <model_name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ microk8s.kubectl logs -f <pod_name> -n <model_name>
```

Reviewer: I think it would be better to skip the container part. Some Pods (like UPF) have multiple containers and the user may not know which one is relevant.

Author: OK.

Author: Done

```

> Attach the logs to the bug report by providing other required details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attach the logs to the bug report.
```

│ model.juju.is/id:9755936b-8084-4397-8a67-28773b361dfa] (not valid)
```

### Recommended Actions

Check all the existing Juju models:

```shell
$ juju models
controller: microk8s-localhost

Model       Cloud/Region        Type        Status      Units  Access  Last connection
controller  microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  available   1       admin  just now
private5g*  microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  destroying  -       admin  6 minutes ago
private5g2  microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  destroying  -       admin  1 minute ago
sdcore      microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  available   19      admin  2024-10-04
```

According to [Customize the model name using variables][Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform], provide a model name which does not exist in Juju controller:

Create a `terraform.tfvars` file to specify the name of the Juju model to deploy to.

```shell
cat << EOF | tee terraform.tfvars
model_name = "put your model-name here"
EOF
```

Deploy the applications by customizing the model name attribute:

```shell
terraform apply -var-file="terraform.tfvars" -auto-approve 

> ```

Reviewer: Do we want to repeat the steps described in the linked document?

Author: Removed the steps.

### Symptoms

While Juju is performing the deployment, the Juju controller may be unavailable which fails the deployment with the error `timeout to Juju Terraform provider` as following.

```console
$ terraform apply --auto-approve
╷
│ Error: Invalid provider configuration
│ 
│ Provider "registry.terraform.io/juju/juju" requires explicit configuration. Add a provider block to the root module and configure the provider's required arguments as described in
│ the provider documentation.
│ 
│ Error: dial tcp 10.152.183.251:17070: i/o timeout
│ 
│   with provider["registry.terraform.io/juju/juju"],
│   on <empty> line 0:
│   (source code not available)
│ 
│ Connection error, please check the controller_addresses property set on the provider
```

### Recommended Actions

Make sure that the Juju controller is available:

```shell
$ juju controllers
Use --refresh option with this command to see the latest information.

Controller           Model      User   Access     Cloud/Region        Models  Nodes  HA  Version
microk8s-localhost*  private5g  admin  superuser  microk8s/localhost       9      -   -  3.4.5  
```

> If it does not output the controller details, please follow the guide [manage Juju controllers][Manage Juju Controller] to create a Juju controller.

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be better to point to our documentation instead. 
https://canonical-charmed-aether-sd-core.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/tutorials/getting_started/#bootstrap-a-juju-controller

Author: I provided the Juju page which provides more actions for controller management.  In our guide, we only show how to create a controller. There could be some cases that `juju bootstrap microk8s` may fail. I sometimes meet this issue. The reason is  `juju bootstrap microk8s` creates a controller with a default name. That controller may exists but unreachable. If we run the same command again, bootstrap fails. Our guide does not provide a solution for it but Juju page provides the solution and I do not want to repeat them here.  I prefer to change my sentence to `create an accessible Juju controller` instead of changing the reference link.

## 5. Charmed Aether SD-Core charms stuck at the Waiting/Blocked status

### Symptoms

After deploying the Charmed Aether SD-Core, check the applications' status:

```shell
$ juju status
```

> All the charms except the `grana-agent` should be in the Active/Idle state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the charms except the `grafana-agent` should be in the Active/Idle state.
```

Author: Thank you. Done.

If any application hangs in `Waiting` or `Blocked` status, check the table below to see the recommended actions.

### Recommended Actions

If any situation fits to your case in the table below, then perform the recommended actions by utilizing the [Charmed Aether SD-Core Documentation][Charmed Aether SD-Core Documentation].

| Charm Status | How much time passed | Reason                                                                | Recommended Actions                                                   |
|--------------|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Waiting      | For a short time     | Waiting for a relation data, configuration or service to be available | Wait more                                                             |

Reviewer: Personally I'm not a fan of phrases like `short time`. What is `short time`? And how much longer should I wait? 
If any application is not in Active/Idle after the typical deployment time specified in the documentation, it's probably a bug.

Author: Replaced with ` Within the time specified in the documentation`.

| Blocked      |                      | Multus is not installed or enabled                                    | Install and enable Multus                                             |
| Blocked      |                      | CPU is not compatible                                                 | Use CPU which is Intel 4ᵗʰ generation or newer, or AMD Ryzen or newer |

> | Blocked      |                      | Not enough HugePages available                                        | Set at least two 1G HugePages in the host                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Blocked      |                      | Not enough HugePages available                                        | Make sure at least two 1G HugePages are available in the host                             |
```

> | Blocked      |                      | Waiting for a relation                                                | Find the missing interface and set up the relation                    |

Reviewer: This seems risky. Especially with Terraform. 
If a relation is missing it's probably a bug in a solution module. 
Also if the user creates a relation manually (`juju integrate`), Terraform will remove it with the first applied change. 
Personally I wouldn't ask the user to fix it on their own.

Author: This is indicated as a case that bug report needs to be created.

| Blocked      |                      | Invalid configuration                                                 | Provide valid configuration options                                   |
| Blocked      |                      | MetalLB is not enabled                                                | Enable MetalLB                                                        |

[Bug Report]: https://github.com/canonical/charmed-aether-sd-core/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug_report.yml

[Validate Terraform Configuration]: https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/configuration-language/troubleshooting-workflow#validate-your-configuration

[Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform]: https://github.com/canonical/terraform-juju-sdcore/blob/main/modules/sdcore-k8s/README.md#deploying-sdcore-k8s-with-terraform

[Manage Juju Controller]: https://juju.is/docs/juju/manage-controllers

[Traefik Pod Goes to Error State]: https://github.com/canonical/traefik-k8s-operator/issues/361

[Charmed Aether SD-Core Documentation]: https://github.com/canonical/charmed-aether-sd-core/tree/main/docs

> 

Reviewer: That's a lot of blank lines here ;)

> # Troubleshoot deployment issues

Author: If we check the title naming in the other how-tos, all of them uses imperatives. To keep the consistency, I would keep the existing title.

This guide provides step-by-step troubleshooting actions to remediate deployment issues. We hope you don't need this guide. If you encounter an issue and aren't able to address it via this guide, please raise an issue [here][Bug Report].

## 1. Terraform failed to deploy the Charmed Aether SD-Core because of selecting an existing Juju model

### Symptoms

> The `terraform apply -auto-approve` command fails with a client error which express that the Juju model could not be created:

Author: Done.

```console
Plan: 72 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
juju_model.private5g: Creating...
│ Error: Client Error
│   with juju_model.private5g,
│   on main.tf line 1, in resource "juju_model" "private5g":
│    1: resource "juju_model" "private5g" {
│ Unable to create model, got error: failed to open kubernetes client: annotations map[controller.juju.is/id:ced7016b-3a63-4133-8988-cf33068c3cdf
│ model.juju.is/id:2abfe7ab-9e40-4e0d-8158-53450c47b2db] for namespace "private5g" not valid must include map[controller.juju.is/id:ced7016b-3a63-4133-8988-cf33068c3cdf
│ model.juju.is/id:9755936b-8084-4397-8a67-28773b361dfa] (not valid)
```

### Recommended Actions

Validate whether a Juju model already exists with the same name:

```shell
$ juju models
controller: microk8s-localhost

Model       Cloud/Region        Type        Status      Units  Access  Last connection
controller  microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  available   1       admin  just now
private5g*  microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  destroying  -       admin  6 minutes ago
sdcore      microk8s/localhost  kubernetes  available   19      admin  2024-10-04
```

> Choose a model name that does not already exist in the Juju controller. Read [this guide][Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform] for more information.

Author: The sentence is updated to -> Choose a unique model name that does not already exist in the Juju controller. 
The remaining part is kept as is

> Choose a model name that does not already exist in the Juju controller. Read [this guide][Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform] for more information.

Reviewer: 'Unique' implies that there's no existing model with the same name. I'd keep either one of them, but not both.

> Choose a model name that does not already exist in the Juju controller. Read [this guide][Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform] for more information.

Author: I will keep the existing sentence.

> ## 2. Juju failed to deploy Charmed Aether SD-Core as Juju controller is not reachable

Author: Replaced with Terraform failed to deploy Charmed Aether SD-Core with `Connection error, please check the controller_addresses property set on the provider` error

### Symptoms

> The `terraform apply -auto-approve` command fails with a dial tcp i/o timeout error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `terraform apply -auto-approve` command fails with an error indicating that the Juju controller couldn't be connected to:
```

Author: OK

```console
$ terraform apply --auto-approve
│ Error: Invalid provider configuration
│ Provider "registry.terraform.io/juju/juju" requires explicit configuration. Add a provider block to the root module and configure the provider's required arguments as described in
│ the provider documentation.
│ Error: dial tcp 10.152.183.251:17070: i/o timeout
│   with provider["registry.terraform.io/juju/juju"],
│   on <empty> line 0:
│   (source code not available)
│ Connection error, please check the controller_addresses property set on the provider
```

### Recommended Actions

> Validate that the Juju controller is available:
> 
> ```shell
> $ juju controllers
> Use --refresh option with this command to see the latest information.
> 
> Controller           Model      User   Access     Cloud/Region        Models  Nodes  HA  Version
> microk8s-localhost*  private5g  admin  superuser  microk8s/localhost       9      -   -  3.4.5  
> ```
> 
> If it does not output the controller details, please follow [this guide][Manage Juju Controller] to create an accessible Juju controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that your Juju controller is available.

You can see the list of available Juju controllers by running `juju controllers` command:

```shell
$ juju controllers
Use --refresh option with this command to see the latest information.

Controller           Model      User   Access     Cloud/Region        Models  Nodes  HA  Version
microk8s-localhost*  private5g  admin  superuser  microk8s/localhost       9      -   -  3.4.5  
```

If you controller doesn't show up on the list, please follow [this guide][Manage Juju Controller] to create an accessible Juju controller.
```

Author: I expand this case to check juju controller health.

[Bug Report]: https://github.com/canonical/charmed-aether-sd-core/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug_report.yml

> 

Author: Removed.

> [Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform]: https://github.com/canonical/terraform-juju-sdcore/blob/main/modules/sdcore-k8s/README.md#deploying-sdcore-k8s-with-terraform

Author: Replaced with https://canonical-charmed-aether-sd-core.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/how-to/deploy_sdcore_standalone/#configure

> [Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform]: https://github.com/canonical/terraform-juju-sdcore/blob/main/modules/sdcore-k8s/README.md#deploying-sdcore-k8s-with-terraform

Author: We need to guide user to change the model name and this section explains how to do it using .tfvars. Do you have any other place that matches better that this in you mind ?

> [Deploy SD-Core K8s with Terraform]: https://github.com/canonical/terraform-juju-sdcore/blob/main/modules/sdcore-k8s/README.md#deploying-sdcore-k8s-with-terraform

Author: Replaced the link to indicate deploy section in the same how-to.

> 

Author: Removed.

> [Manage Juju Controller]: https://juju.is/docs/juju/manage-controllers

Reviewer: I'm still not convinced with this reference. It doesn't really mention any troubleshooting tips. If simple `juju bootstrap` doesn't work, then I don't see how this document helps.

Author: Juju controller connect issue may happen after a successful `juju bootstrap`. So, the case is not that simple.  I added more actions to run a health check action on controller api-server.

Reviewer: OK, I like the additional checks, but I still don't see any use for this reference. Eventually, if everything else fails, we are still telling the user to create a new controller. Can't we just point the user to [Bootstrap a Juju Controller] again?

Author: Actually we are doing this at the end. However we are trying to help them to success in their next retry. Let's assume that  we have unreachable controller and we do not know that if controller exists or not. If we run `juju bootstrap` again, most likely it will fail again with an error `this controller already exists`.

```console
$ terraform apply --auto-approve
│ Error: Invalid provider configuration
│ Provider "registry.terraform.io/juju/juju" requires explicit configuration. Add a provider block to the root module and configure the provider's required arguments as described in
│ the provider documentation.
│ Error: dial tcp 10.152.183.251:17070: i/o timeout
│   with provider["registry.terraform.io/juju/juju"],
│   on <empty> line 0:
│   (source code not available)
│ Connection error, please check the controller_addresses property set on the provider
```

### Recommended Actions

Validate that the Juju controller exists.

First, list the available Juju controllers:

```shell
$ juju controllers
Use --refresh option with this command to see the latest information.

Controller           Model      User   Access     Cloud/Region        Models  Nodes  HA  Version
microk8s-localhost*  private5g  admin  superuser  microk8s/localhost       9      -   -  3.4.5  
```

If your controller does not show up in the list, please follow [this guide][Bootstrap Juju Controller] to create a Juju controller.

Otherwise, follow [this guide][Remove Juju Controller] to remove your broken Juju controller.

> After removal of controller, please make sure that controller namespace is not found in your MicroK8s cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the controller is removed, please make sure that the controller namespace is not found in your MicroK8s cluster:
```

Author: Done.

```shell
$ kubectl get ns controller-<your-controller-name>
NAME                            STATUS   AGE
controller-<your-controller-name>   Active   20d
```

> If your controller namespace appears as `active` in the command output, remove the namespace manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your controller namespace appears as `Active` in the command output, remove the namespace manually:
```

Author: Done.

```shell
$ kubectl delete ns controller-<your-controller-name>
namespace "controller-<your-controller-name>" deleted
```

> Then, please follow [this guide][Bootstrap Juju Controller] to create a new Juju controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful removal of the controller namespace, please follow [this guide][Bootstrap Juju Controller] to create a new Juju controller.
```

Author: Done.
